So he has brought a three configure hostname of Rada 3D rather interface loop back zero.
My Peavey six address 2001 column face colon three colon colon one slash 64 interface gigabit 00.
This should have an IP address of two 01 colon to Colon colon three slash 64 and all no shot to the
interface
interfaces come up gigabit.
0 1 This should be 2001 colon 3 colon column 1 slash 64 and also no shut the interface.
So IP Peavey 6 unit cost writing needs to be enabled IP vs 6 Roorda 0 SPF 1
Roorda I.D..
As we told you there needs to be manually configured so 3 3 3 3 interface gigabit 00 IP vs 6 0 SPF 1
area 0 this interface needs to be an area 0.
A neighbor relationship has been established interface loop back at 0.
I'll put that in to
Area 2 and we'll put gigabit 0 1 into area to show IP 0 SPF protocols or other show IP protocols
and this is the mistake that's easy to make its IP vs 6 protocols rather than IP version 4 0 SPF is
enabled with 0 SPF process idea 1.
The process numbers don't have to be the same.
I'll configure the lost rudder with a different process I.D. but it makes sense to keep it simple and
use the same process idea on all your rudders to normal areas.
These interfaces have been configured in the various areas show IP vs 6 round who is P.F..
Notice 3 routes have been learnt through 0 SPF and these are into area who is preference advertised
by Rod a 2 using its a link local address.
Ping 2001 colon face colon 1 colon colon 1 Robert a 3 is able to ping this address.
And what about a trace route to the same address we can see that we going via rod a 2 and then via Rod
1.
So we've configured 0 SPF successfully on this part of the network.
Let's can figure out a 4.
And as I mentioned I'll configure it with a different process I.D. just to show you that you can do
that even though I'd probably want to keep it the same on all riders for consistency and simplicity
so host is our for IP vs 6 unit cost routing interface a loop back 0 IP vs 6 address 2001 colon face
colon for colon colon one slash 64.
Now I'm using virtual writers here you can see that it's having a problem with one of the processes
but hopefully that won't cause problems.
As always what I should have done is save my configurations on all my roads.
Let's do that here.
In case I have to reload genie three not sure if he can hear that but my SIU is taking a hammering at
the moment so configuration is saved on
the full rods so show IP six interface brief we have configured the loop back but we haven't configured
the other interfaces so interface gigabit 0 0 IP vs 6 address 2001 colon three colon colon to slash
64 no shut we have a ready configured
IP six unit cost routing.
So now we can configure SPF So IP vs 6 Rada or SPF 1 Rada I.D. in this example will be quadruple for
interface gigabit 00 IP vs 6 0 SPF 1 area 2 and we'll do the same thing on the loop back neighbour relationship
has formed to show IP v 6 of SPF neighbor
neighbor relationship is established show ITV 6 route SPF we've got a single intra area 0 SPF Rod these
two loop backs are in the same SPF area area 2 but these loop backs on Rod a 2 and Rod a 1 are in different
ways P.F. areas and so is this network here so ping 2001 column 1 column Column 1 That's right a ones
gigabit 00 interface that works ping 2001 face 1 Colin Colin 1 that's the loop back of right to 1.
So debug IP and I'm going to make a mistake now debug IP ICMP won't show anything because we're not
sending IP version 4 pings we are sending IP version 6 pings so debug IP v 6 ICMP notice we now get
output on the debug.
So just be careful make sure that you specify IP these six rather than IP vision for when using your
commands.
So show IP these six protocols there we can see that OSP is enabled on this router show IP v 6 0 SPF
interface brief 2 interfaces are in 0 SPF on rudder 3 show IP 6 0 SPF interface.
So this is not brief this is the interface command and you can see that gigabit 00 this interface is
a broadcast interface the local Rada has a link local address of this process I.D. is one the interfaces
an area zero router 3 has a router I.D. of this it is a backup designated Rada the designated Rada on
this segment is at 2 with this link local address backup designator Rada is the local Rada Hello time
isn't dead Thomas as shown here scrolling down neighbor count is one adjacent neighbour count is one
neighbouring Rada is rather two which is the designated Rada on gigabit 0 1 we see similar kind of information
the local Rada is the designated Rada so Rada 3 is the designated Rada here but rather 2 is the designated
Rada here show my Peavey 6 O SPF this just gives us general information about oh SPF version 3 we can
see the Rada I.D. and the process no so we using SPF vision 3 and not 0 SPF vision 2 we can also see
a backbone area area 0 1 interfaces in that area the SPF algorithm has been executed three times there
are twelve Elysees area 2 there are two interfaces and area 2 SPF algorithm has executed three times
show IP V six who SPF database we have and this is where you need to be careful to Rodders in area 0
but scrolling down there are also two rotters in area two the databases are separate so there's a separate
database for area 2 versus area 0 so that's how you configure a basic IP version 6 and network with
0 SPF version 3.